docs/API.md, before:

# Google Workspace MCP Server API Documentation

## Overview
This MCP server provides tools for Gmail and Calendar operations along with Google account management. The server handles OAuth authentication, token management, and API interactions with Google Workspace services.

## Available Tools

### Account Management

#### 1. list_google_accounts
Lists all configured Google accounts and their authentication status.

**Request Format**
```typescript
// No parameters required
{}
```

**Response Format**
```typescript
[{
  email: string;          // Google account email
  category?: string;      // Account category (e.g., work, personal)
  description?: string;   // Account description
  auth_status: {
    has_token: boolean;   // Whether account has valid token
    scopes?: string[];    // Currently authorized scopes
    expires?: number;     // Token expiration timestamp
  }
}]
```

#### 2. use_google_account
Add and authenticate a Google account for API access.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address of the Google account
  category?: string;       // Account category (e.g., work, personal)
  description?: string;    // Account description
  required_scopes: string[]; // Required OAuth scopes
  auth_code?: string;      // Authorization code (only for initial auth)
}
```

#### 3. forget_google_account
Remove a Google account and delete its associated authentication tokens.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;          // Email address of the account to remove
}
```

### Calendar Operations

#### 1. get_events
Get events from a Google Calendar with optional filtering.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address of the Calendar account
  query?: string;         // Search query to filter events
  maxResults?: number;    // Maximum number of events (default: 10)
  timeMin?: string;      // Start of time range (ISO string)
  timeMax?: string;      // End of time range (ISO string)
}
```

#### 2. create_event
Create a new calendar event.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address of the Calendar account
  summary: string;        // Event title
  description?: string;   // Event description
  start: {
    dateTime: string;    // Start time (ISO string)
    timeZone?: string;   // Optional timezone
  };
  end: {
    dateTime: string;    // End time (ISO string)
    timeZone?: string;   // Optional timezone
  };
  attendees?: {          // Optional list of attendees
    email: string;
  }[];
}
```

### Gmail Operations

#### 1. get_emails
Get emails from a Gmail account with optional filtering.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address of the Gmail account
  query?: string;          // Search query to filter emails
  maxResults?: number;     // Maximum number of emails (default: 10)
  labelIds?: string[];     // List of label IDs (default: ["INBOX"])
}
```

#### 2. send_email
Send an email from a Gmail account.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address to send from
  to: string[];           // List of recipient email addresses
  subject: string;        // Email subject
  body: string;           // Email body content
  cc?: string[];         // Optional CC recipients
  bcc?: string[];        // Optional BCC recipients
}
```

## Response Formats

### Success Response
```typescript
{
  content: [{
    type: 'text',
    text: JSON.stringify({
      status: 'success',
      // Operation-specific data
    })
  }]
}
```

### Error Response
```typescript
{
  content: [{
    type: 'text',
    text: JSON.stringify({
      status: 'error',
      error: string,      // Error message
      resolution: string  // Resolution steps
    })
  }],
  isError: true
}
```

### Authentication Required Response
```typescript
{
  content: [{
    type: 'text',
    text: JSON.stringify({
      status: 'auth_required',
      auth_url: string,    // OAuth URL
      message: string,     // User instructions
      instructions: string // Step-by-step guide
    })
  }]
}
```

### Token Refresh Response
```typescript
{
  content: [{
    type: 'text',
    text: JSON.stringify({
      status: 'refreshing',
      message: 'Token refreshed successfully'
    })
  }]
}
```

## Error Types

### Calendar Errors
- `FETCH_ERROR`: Failed to get calendar events
- `CREATE_ERROR`: Failed to create calendar event
- `AUTH_REQUIRED`: Calendar authentication needed
- `MODULE_NOT_INITIALIZED`: Calendar module not ready

### Account Errors
- `AUTH_CONFIG_ERROR`: OAuth configuration issues
- `AUTH_CLIENT_ERROR`: OAuth client initialization failed
- `AUTH_CODE_ERROR`: Invalid authorization code
- `TOKEN_REFRESH_ERROR`: Token refresh failed
- `MODULE_NOT_INITIALIZED`: Account module not ready

### Gmail Errors
- `FETCH_ERROR`: Failed to get emails
- `SEND_ERROR`: Failed to send email
- `AUTH_REQUIRED`: Gmail authentication needed
- `MODULE_NOT_INITIALIZED`: Gmail module not ready

## Setup Guide

### 1. Google Cloud Setup

1. Create Project:
   ```
   https://console.cloud.google.com
   → Select a project → New Project
   ```

2. Enable APIs:
   ```
   APIs & Services → Library
   → Enable "Gmail API"
   ```

3. OAuth Screen:
   ```
   APIs & Services → OAuth consent screen
   → External
   → Add scopes for Gmail
   → Add test users
   ```

4. Create Credentials:
   ```
   APIs & Services → Credentials
   → Create Credentials → OAuth client ID
   → Desktop application
   ```

### 2. Configuration Files

1. OAuth Config (`gauth.json`):
   ```json
   {
     "client_id": "your-client-id",
     "client_secret": "your-client-secret",
     "redirect_uri": "urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob"
   }
   ```

2. MCP Server Config:
   ```json
   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "gsuite": {
         "command": "node",
         "args": ["path/to/build/index.js"],
         "env": {
           "AUTH_CONFIG_FILE": "path/to/gauth.json",
           "ACCOUNTS_FILE": "path/to/accounts.json",
           "CREDENTIALS_DIR": "path/to/credentials"
         }
       }
     }
   }
   ```

## Authentication Flow

1. Initial Setup:
   ```typescript
   await use_mcp_tool({
     server_name: "gsuite",
     tool_name: "use_google_account",
     arguments: {
       email: "user@example.com",
       required_scopes: ["https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send"]
     }
   });
   // → Returns auth_url to complete OAuth
   ```

2. Complete Auth:
   ```typescript
   await use_mcp_tool({
     server_name: "gsuite",
     tool_name: "use_google_account",
     arguments: {
       email: "user@example.com",
       required_scopes: ["https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send"],
       auth_code: "4/1AX4XfWh..."  // Code from OAuth
     }
   });
   ```

3. Use Services:
   ```typescript
   // Token refresh handled automatically
   await use_mcp_tool({
     server_name: "gsuite",
     tool_name: "send_email",
     arguments: {
       email: "user@example.com",
       to: ["recipient@example.com"],
       subject: "Test",
       body: "Hello"
     }
   });
   ```

## Common Scopes

### Gmail Scopes
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.readonly` - Read-only access
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send` - Send emails only
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.modify` - All read/write operations
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.compose` - Create/send emails

### Calendar Scopes
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.readonly` - Read-only access to calendars
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.events` - Read/write access to events
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar` - Full access to calendars and events

Commit message:

fix: register calendar tools in ListToolsRequestSchema
The calendar tools were not visible to the AI because they were missing from
the ListToolsRequestSchema handler. This fix:

1. Adds calendar tools registration:
   - get_calendar_events
   - get_calendar_event
   - create_calendar_event

2. Improves documentation:
   - Adds warning comments about tool registration requirements
   - Adds new "Tool Registration Requirements" section in API docs
   - Documents required OAuth scopes for calendar operations

This ensures calendar tools are properly discoverable by the AI and helps
prevent similar registration issues in the future.

docs/API.md, after:

# Google Workspace MCP Server API Documentation

## Overview
This MCP server provides tools for Gmail and Calendar operations along with Google account management. The server handles OAuth authentication, token management, and API interactions with Google Workspace services.

## Tool Registration Requirements

IMPORTANT: For a tool to be visible to the AI, it must be registered in two places:
1. The `ListToolsRequestSchema` handler - This defines the tool's interface and makes it discoverable
2. The `CallToolRequestSchema` handler - This implements the tool's functionality

If a tool is not registered in the `ListToolsRequestSchema` handler, the AI won't know it exists, even if it has a handler implementation in `CallToolRequestSchema`. This is a common pitfall when adding new tools - always ensure both handlers are properly configured.

## Available Tools

### Account Management

#### 1. list_google_accounts
Lists all configured Google accounts and their authentication status.

**Request Format**
```typescript
// No parameters required
{}
```

**Response Format**
```typescript
[{
  email: string;          // Google account email
  category?: string;      // Account category (e.g., work, personal)
  description?: string;   // Account description
  auth_status: {
    has_token: boolean;   // Whether account has valid token
    scopes?: string[];    // Currently authorized scopes
    expires?: number;     // Token expiration timestamp
  }
}]
```

#### 2. use_google_account
Add and authenticate a Google account for API access.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address of the Google account
  category?: string;       // Account category (e.g., work, personal)
  description?: string;    // Account description
  required_scopes: string[]; // Required OAuth scopes
  auth_code?: string;      // Authorization code (only for initial auth)
}
```

#### 3. forget_google_account
Remove a Google account and delete its associated authentication tokens.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;          // Email address of the account to remove
}
```

### Calendar Operations

#### 1. get_events
Get events from a Google Calendar with optional filtering.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address of the Calendar account
  query?: string;         // Search query to filter events
  maxResults?: number;    // Maximum number of events (default: 10)
  timeMin?: string;      // Start of time range (ISO string)
  timeMax?: string;      // End of time range (ISO string)
}
```

#### 2. create_event
Create a new calendar event.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address of the Calendar account
  summary: string;        // Event title
  description?: string;   // Event description
  start: {
    dateTime: string;    // Start time (ISO string)
    timeZone?: string;   // Optional timezone
  };
  end: {
    dateTime: string;    // End time (ISO string)
    timeZone?: string;   // Optional timezone
  };
  attendees?: {          // Optional list of attendees
    email: string;
  }[];
}
```

### Gmail Operations

#### 1. get_emails
Get emails from a Gmail account with optional filtering.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address of the Gmail account
  query?: string;          // Search query to filter emails
  maxResults?: number;     // Maximum number of emails (default: 10)
  labelIds?: string[];     // List of label IDs (default: ["INBOX"])
}
```

#### 2. send_email
Send an email from a Gmail account.

**Request Format**
```typescript
{
  email: string;           // Email address to send from
  to: string[];           // List of recipient email addresses
  subject: string;        // Email subject
  body: string;           // Email body content
  cc?: string[];         // Optional CC recipients
  bcc?: string[];        // Optional BCC recipients
}
```

## Response Formats

### Success Response
```typescript
{
  content: [{
    type: 'text',
    text: JSON.stringify({
      status: 'success',
      // Operation-specific data
    })
  }]
}
```

### Error Response
```typescript
{
  content: [{
    type: 'text',
    text: JSON.stringify({
      status: 'error',
      error: string,      // Error message
      resolution: string  // Resolution steps
    })
  }],
  isError: true
}
```

### Authentication Required Response
```typescript
{
  content: [{
    type: 'text',
    text: JSON.stringify({
      status: 'auth_required',
      auth_url: string,    // OAuth URL
      message: string,     // User instructions
      instructions: string // Step-by-step guide
    })
  }]
}
```

### Token Refresh Response
```typescript
{
  content: [{
    type: 'text',
    text: JSON.stringify({
      status: 'refreshing',
      message: 'Token refreshed successfully'
    })
  }]
}
```

## Error Types

### Calendar Errors
- `FETCH_ERROR`: Failed to get calendar events
- `CREATE_ERROR`: Failed to create calendar event
- `AUTH_REQUIRED`: Calendar authentication needed
- `MODULE_NOT_INITIALIZED`: Calendar module not ready

### Account Errors
- `AUTH_CONFIG_ERROR`: OAuth configuration issues
- `AUTH_CLIENT_ERROR`: OAuth client initialization failed
- `AUTH_CODE_ERROR`: Invalid authorization code
- `TOKEN_REFRESH_ERROR`: Token refresh failed
- `MODULE_NOT_INITIALIZED`: Account module not ready

### Gmail Errors
- `FETCH_ERROR`: Failed to get emails
- `SEND_ERROR`: Failed to send email
- `AUTH_REQUIRED`: Gmail authentication needed
- `MODULE_NOT_INITIALIZED`: Gmail module not ready

## Setup Guide

### 1. Google Cloud Setup

1. Create Project:
   ```
   https://console.cloud.google.com
   → Select a project → New Project
   ```

2. Enable APIs:
   ```
   APIs & Services → Library
   → Enable "Gmail API"
   ```

3. OAuth Screen:
   ```
   APIs & Services → OAuth consent screen
   → External
   → Add scopes for Gmail
   → Add test users
   ```

4. Create Credentials:
   ```
   APIs & Services → Credentials
   → Create Credentials → OAuth client ID
   → Desktop application
   ```

### 2. Configuration Files

1. OAuth Config (`gauth.json`):
   ```json
   {
     "client_id": "your-client-id",
     "client_secret": "your-client-secret",
     "redirect_uri": "urn:ietf:wg:oauth:2.0:oob"
   }
   ```

2. MCP Server Config:
   ```json
   {
     "mcpServers": {
       "gsuite": {
         "command": "node",
         "args": ["path/to/build/index.js"],
         "env": {
           "AUTH_CONFIG_FILE": "path/to/gauth.json",
           "ACCOUNTS_FILE": "path/to/accounts.json",
           "CREDENTIALS_DIR": "path/to/credentials"
         }
       }
     }
   }
   ```

## Authentication Flow

1. Initial Setup:
   ```typescript
   await use_mcp_tool({
     server_name: "gsuite",
     tool_name: "use_google_account",
     arguments: {
       email: "user@example.com",
       required_scopes: ["https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send"]
     }
   });
   // → Returns auth_url to complete OAuth
   ```

2. Complete Auth:
   ```typescript
   await use_mcp_tool({
     server_name: "gsuite",
     tool_name: "use_google_account",
     arguments: {
       email: "user@example.com",
       required_scopes: ["https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send"],
       auth_code: "4/1AX4XfWh..."  // Code from OAuth
     }
   });
   ```

3. Use Services:
   ```typescript
   // Token refresh handled automatically
   await use_mcp_tool({
     server_name: "gsuite",
     tool_name: "send_email",
     arguments: {
       email: "user@example.com",
       to: ["recipient@example.com"],
       subject: "Test",
       body: "Hello"
     }
   });
   ```

## Common Scopes

### Gmail Scopes
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.readonly` - Read-only access
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send` - Send emails only
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.modify` - All read/write operations
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.compose` - Create/send emails

### Calendar Scopes
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.readonly` - Read-only access to calendars
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.events` - Read/write access to events
- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar` - Full access to calendars and events
