docs/ERRORS.md, before:

# Error Handling Documentation

## Error Response Format

All errors follow a standardized format:
```typescript
{
  status: "error",
  error: string,      // Human-readable error message
  resolution: string  // Suggested steps to resolve the error
}
```

## Error Categories

### 1. Validation Errors

#### INVALID_SERVICE
- **Description**: The requested Google API service is not supported
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Service name is misspelled
  - Service is not implemented in the server
- **Resolution**: Check supported services in API documentation

#### INVALID_METHOD
- **Description**: The requested API method is not supported
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Method name is misspelled
  - Method is not implemented for the service
- **Resolution**: Verify method name in API documentation

#### INVALID_ENDPOINT
- **Description**: Malformed API endpoint format
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Incorrect endpoint format
  - Missing service or method parts
- **Resolution**: Use format "service.method" (e.g., "drive.files.list")

#### MISSING_REQUIRED_PARAMS
- **Description**: Required parameters are missing from the request
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Required parameters not provided
  - Parameters misspelled
- **Resolution**: Check required parameters in API documentation

#### INVALID_PARAM_TYPE
- **Description**: Parameter value type doesn't match expected type
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Wrong data type provided
  - Array provided instead of string or vice versa
- **Resolution**: Verify parameter types in API documentation

### 2. Authentication Errors

#### TOKEN_EXPIRED
- **Description**: OAuth token has expired
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Token age exceeds expiration time
  - Token invalidated by user
- **Resolution**: Server will automatically refresh token, retry request

#### TOKEN_INVALID
- **Description**: OAuth token is invalid
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Token revoked
  - Token malformed
- **Resolution**: Re-authenticate using OAuth flow

#### INSUFFICIENT_SCOPE
- **Description**: Token lacks required scopes
- **Possible Causes**:
  - New scopes needed
  - Scopes not approved during auth
- **Resolution**: Re-authenticate with all required scopes

### 3. API Errors

#### API_ERROR_400
- **Description**: Bad Request
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Invalid request parameters
  - Malformed request body
- **Resolution**: Check request format and parameters

#### API_ERROR_401
- **Description**: Unauthorized
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Invalid credentials
  - Token expired
- **Resolution**: Check authentication status

#### API_ERROR_403
- **Description**: Forbidden
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Insufficient permissions
  - Account restrictions
- **Resolution**: Verify account permissions and scopes

#### API_ERROR_404
- **Description**: Resource Not Found
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Invalid resource ID
  - Resource deleted
- **Resolution**: Verify resource exists

#### API_ERROR_429
- **Description**: Rate Limit Exceeded
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Too many requests
  - Quota exceeded
- **Resolution**: Implement exponential backoff

#### API_ERROR_500
- **Description**: Internal Server Error
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Google API error
  - Server-side issue
- **Resolution**: Retry request later

#### API_ERROR_503
- **Description**: Service Unavailable
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Google API maintenance
  - Temporary outage
- **Resolution**: Retry request later

### 4. System Errors

#### SERVICE_INIT_FAILED
- **Description**: Failed to initialize Google service
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Configuration issues
  - Network problems
- **Resolution**: Check server configuration

#### NETWORK_ERROR
- **Description**: Network communication failed
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Connection issues
  - Timeout
- **Resolution**: Check network connection and retry

## Error Handling Best Practices

1. **Always Check Status**
   - Verify response status before processing
   - Handle both success and error cases

2. **Implement Retry Logic**
   - Retry on transient errors (429, 500, 503)
   - Use exponential backoff
   - Set maximum retry attempts

3. **Handle Authentication Flows**
   - Watch for token expiration
   - Handle refresh token flow
   - Re-authenticate when needed

4. **Log Errors Appropriately**
   - Include error codes and messages
   - Log stack traces for debugging
   - Don't log sensitive information

5. **User Communication**
   - Provide clear error messages
   - Include resolution steps
   - Offer support contact if needed

## Example Error Handling

```typescript
try {
  const response = await makeRequest();
  if (response.status === "error") {
    // Handle error based on type
    switch (response.error) {
      case "TOKEN_EXPIRED":
        // Handle token refresh
        break;
      case "INVALID_PARAM_TYPE":
        // Fix parameters and retry
        break;
      // ... handle other cases
    }
  }
} catch (error) {
  // Handle unexpected errors
  console.error("Request failed:", error);
}

Commit message:

docs: update error messages to be more user-friendly and consistent

docs/ERRORS.md, after:

# Error Handling Documentation

## Error Response Format

All errors follow a standardized format:
```typescript
{
  status: "error",
  error: string,      // Human-readable error message
  resolution: string  // Suggested steps to resolve the error
}
```

## Error Categories

### 1. Validation Errors

#### INVALID_SERVICE
- **Description**: The requested Google API service is not supported
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Service name is misspelled
  - Service is not implemented in the server
- **Resolution**: Check supported services in API documentation

#### INVALID_METHOD
- **Description**: The requested API method is not supported
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Method name is misspelled
  - Method is not implemented for the service
- **Resolution**: Verify method name in API documentation

#### INVALID_ENDPOINT
- **Description**: Malformed API endpoint format
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Incorrect endpoint format
  - Missing service or method parts
- **Resolution**: Use format "service.method" (e.g., "drive.files.list")

#### MISSING_REQUIRED_PARAMS
- **Description**: Required parameters are missing from the request
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Required parameters not provided
  - Parameters misspelled
- **Resolution**: Check required parameters in API documentation

#### INVALID_PARAM_TYPE
- **Description**: Parameter value type doesn't match expected type
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Wrong data type provided
  - Array provided instead of string or vice versa
- **Resolution**: Verify parameter types in API documentation

### 2. Authentication Errors

#### TOKEN_EXPIRED
- **Description**: OAuth token has expired
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Token age exceeds expiration time
  - Token invalidated by user
- **Resolution**: Server will automatically refresh token, retry request

#### TOKEN_INVALID
- **Description**: OAuth token is invalid
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Token revoked
  - Token malformed
- **Resolution**: Please authenticate the account, which will grant all necessary permissions

#### INSUFFICIENT_SCOPE
- **Description**: Account needs authentication
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Account not authenticated
  - New permissions needed
- **Resolution**: Please authenticate the account, which will grant all necessary permissions

### 3. API Errors

#### API_ERROR_400
- **Description**: Bad Request
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Invalid request parameters
  - Malformed request body
- **Resolution**: Check request format and parameters

#### API_ERROR_401
- **Description**: Unauthorized
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Invalid credentials
  - Token expired
- **Resolution**: Check authentication status

#### API_ERROR_403
- **Description**: Forbidden
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Insufficient permissions
  - Account restrictions
- **Resolution**: Please authenticate the account, which will grant all necessary permissions

#### API_ERROR_404
- **Description**: Resource Not Found
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Invalid resource ID
  - Resource deleted
- **Resolution**: Verify resource exists

#### API_ERROR_429
- **Description**: Rate Limit Exceeded
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Too many requests
  - Quota exceeded
- **Resolution**: Implement exponential backoff

#### API_ERROR_500
- **Description**: Internal Server Error
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Google API error
  - Server-side issue
- **Resolution**: Retry request later

#### API_ERROR_503
- **Description**: Service Unavailable
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Google API maintenance
  - Temporary outage
- **Resolution**: Retry request later

### 4. System Errors

#### SERVICE_INIT_FAILED
- **Description**: Failed to initialize Google service
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Configuration issues
  - Network problems
- **Resolution**: Check server configuration

#### NETWORK_ERROR
- **Description**: Network communication failed
- **Possible Causes**:
  - Connection issues
  - Timeout
- **Resolution**: Check network connection and retry

## Error Handling Best Practices

1. **Always Check Status**
   - Verify response status before processing
   - Handle both success and error cases

2. **Implement Retry Logic**
   - Retry on transient errors (429, 500, 503)
   - Use exponential backoff
   - Set maximum retry attempts

3. **Handle Authentication Flows**
   - Watch for token expiration
   - Handle refresh token flow
   - Re-authenticate when needed

4. **Log Errors Appropriately**
   - Include error codes and messages
   - Log stack traces for debugging
   - Don't log sensitive information

5. **User Communication**
   - Provide clear, user-friendly error messages
   - Include simple resolution steps
   - Avoid technical jargon in user-facing messages
   - Offer support contact if needed

## Example Error Handling

```typescript
try {
  const response = await makeRequest();
  if (response.status === "error") {
    // Handle error based on type
    switch (response.error) {
      case "TOKEN_EXPIRED":
        // Handle token refresh
        break;
      case "INVALID_PARAM_TYPE":
        // Fix parameters and retry
        break;
      // ... handle other cases
    }
  }
} catch (error) {
  // Handle unexpected errors
  console.error("Request failed:", error);
}
